Last thing you have to do is to make sure that we remove the wall whenever we are travelling up down
left or right.
So I want to first get a quick reminder by taking a look at a diagram at how we're going to update horizontals
and verticals before I show you the diagram.
However or before we walk through it I just want to remind you that inside this function we have access
to a couple of different variables.
First we have access to the row and column.
That is the current row and column that we're working on.
We also have access to the next row and next column.
And that's where we are traveling to just keep specifically the row in column variables in your head
for right now.
We're going to use those quite heavily in this last block of code that we write right here.
OK.
So let's get to it.
So what I want to focus on is how we're going to update the horizontals and the verticals array.
We're going to first consider how we're going to update horizontals.
So we're going to imagine that we're at this center cell right here which means that our initial row
is 1 and our initial column is 1 as well and then we're going to imagine that we move only left or right.
So only thinking about verticals right now as a reminder verticals are that that all these walls that
I'm circling right now the verticals and general
is always going to be.
Remember a two dimensional array it's always going to have three rows.
So row 1 2 and 3 years row one road to and three.
And then they all start off as false inside their
so this false right here corresponds to that element right there.
This false corresponds to that right there and so on.
So what we really want to determine when we are deciding to go either left or right right here from
the center element is whether we are flipping that to true or that to true.
That is the big question here and we need to decide which of these to flip based upon the direction
we are travelling and our current row and column.
So let's figure out how to take the current row and column and the direction and translate it into some
index that we can use to access the verticals array and update the appropriate elements.
OK.
So the actual row that we're going to update that's actually pretty easy.
The row that we're going to update inside the verticals array we put row right here is always going
to be whatever the current row is that we're looking at because we're always staying inside of the same
row so row is never going to change when we update verticals or whenever we move left or right.
However the same is not true of column.
So whenever we decide to move left or right the column index.
So we want to update is going to be either 0 or 1.
So either that element or that element if we are moving to the left then we want to update the element
at column zero.
That would be that one right there.
So that's if we are going that way we want to dump this element right here.
So that means we need to access the verticals array at column 0 and update what is ever right there
to a true on the other hand if we are moving to the right and we want to update this thing right here
and flip it from true to false.
So that would be this element right here.
So we are going to the right that means that we want to return an index of 1.
We want to get index of 1 and update this guy so it's pretty clear here that when we are moving left
or right the row is always going to stay the same.
But depending upon whether we are going left or right we need to either access verticals at 0 or 1.
That's all I'm trying to establish here.
Now we understand that let's go back over to our editor and start to write out this logic.
So I've got my statement right here we want to remove a wall from either horizontals or verticals.
So we're gonna first think about moving left or right.
So we'll say if direction remember we've got the direction variable that we stuffing it into the neighbors
array if that is left then I want to access verticals at the exact same row that we're working on because
remember the row doesn't change at all.
It's only in the column that changes so if we go into the left we're going to look at columns minus
1 and it's minus 1 because remember we start off with a column of 1 that's the column that we're at
right now.
So we're gonna take one off to get zero and then if we are we're gonna set that to true which means
there is an opening here that we can handle the else.
If case otherwise if direction is right and we want to look at verticals again still on the same row.
But in this case at the same exact column we're gonna update that to true.
And I apologize.
I typed in the columns right here.
That should be column singular like so column.
In both cases and that's pretty much it.
So in both cases we got the same exact row were updating.
But if we're going left we're going to update at wrote column minus one.
Otherwise it for going right.
We're going to update at the current column to true.
All right.
Now it would really be nice to test this out so to test this out.
I'm going to go back up to where we established all of our neighbors and I'm going to comment out the
first three cases I'm going to say the only possibility here is that we can travel left and then going
to go back down and make sure that I'm still calling Step Three cell with a fixed value of one and one
and I'll save this go back over the browser refresh I'm gonna print out the verticals variable and now
I can see that I've correctly updated that element like this one right here.
That one got updated to true that definitely worked out correctly and that was it for a move to the
left.
So now we can repeat that same process but I'll comment out everything but a movement to the right it's
now going to only be able to move to the right.
So I'll save this refresh printout verticals and now I see right there.
Awesome updated to true because I was moving to the right.
And once again that's because we wanted to update that one right there to true to represent an opening
in that wall right there okay.
So I think that we've got our verticals put together.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
We're then going to repeat the same exact process but with our horizontals instead it's a quick pause
and I'll see you in just a minute.